# Luke 2:22-52 Jesus Christ Grew in Wisdom and Stature

## Luke 2:22-24 Jesus Grew: Christ Perfectly Obeyed the Law of God

>Luke 2:22–24 (CSB) And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were finished, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord  (just as it is written in the law of the Lord, Every firstborn male will be dedicated to the Lord)  and to offer a sacrifice (according to what is stated in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons).

Did Christ perfectly obey the law of God?

Why was this necessarily so?

Did Christ learn the law of God automatically or was he taught?

Out of all* *the people Jesus knew as a child, who would have taught Jesus the most Scriptures?

## Luke 2:25–33 Jesus Grew: Christ Perfectly Fulfilled the Prophecies of the Messiah

>​Luke 2:25–33 (CSB) There was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. This man was righteous and devout, looking forward to Israel’s consolation, and the Holy Spirit was on him.  It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he saw the Lord’s Messiah.  Guided by the Spirit, he entered the temple. When the parents brought in the child Jesus to perform for him what was customary under the law,
>
>Simeon took him up in his arms, praised God, and said,
>
>Now, Master,  
>you can dismiss your servant in peace,  
>as you promised.  
>For my eyes have seen your salvation.  
>You have prepared it  
>in the presence of all peoples—  
>a light for revelation to the Gentiles  
>and glory to your people Israel.
>
>His father and mother were amazed at what was being said about him.

How do you think Simeon felt see and holding the Christ?

Have you ever received a prophetic word?

Has it come to pass?

Examine Simeon's worship. What did Simeon equate Jesus to?

## Luke 2:34–38 Jesus Grew: Christ Perfectly Redeems His People

>Luke 2:34–38 (CSB) Then Simeon blessed them and told his mother Mary, “Indeed, this child is destined to cause the fall and rise of many in Israel and to be a sign that will be opposed— and a sword will pierce your own soul—that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.”  There was also a prophetess, Anna, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was well along in years, having lived with her husband seven years after her marriage,  and was a widow for eighty-four years. She did not leave the temple, serving God night and day with fasting and prayers.  At that very moment, she came up and began to thank God and to speak about him to all who were looking forward to the redemption of Jerusalem.

According to Simeon, what did Jesus come to do? Where can we point in the Gospels where Christ himself speaks of the same thing?

Read John the Baptist's prophecy in John 3:25-30 and then consider all the prophets of the OT including Anna and John. What did all the prophets do?

## Luke 2:39–40 Jesus Grew: Christ Perfectly in Grace

>Luke 2:39–40 (CSB) When they had completed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth.  The boy grew up and became strong, filled with wisdom, and God’s grace was on him.

What do you think it means for Christ to be fully human--to grew and became strong, filled with wisdom--yet, Jesus was also fully God?

## Luke 2:41-52 Jesus Grew: Christ is Perfectly the Son of God

>Luke 2:41–52 (CSB) Every year his parents traveled to Jerusalem for the Passover Festival.  When he was twelve years old, they went up according to the custom of the festival.  After those days were over, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but his parents did not know it.  Assuming he was in the traveling party, they went a day’s journey. Then they began looking for him among their relatives and friends.  When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem to search for him.  After three days, they found him in the temple sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions.  And all those who heard him were astounded at his understanding and his answers.  When his parents saw him, they were astonished, and his mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you.”  “Why were you searching for me?” he asked them. “Didn’t you know that it was necessary for me to be in my Father’s house?”  But they did not understand what he said to them.  Then he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was obedient to them. His mother kept all these things in her heart.

And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and with people.

Was Jesus being disobedient to his parents?

What can we surmise from his passage about the relationship between God the Father and God the Son?

Can we ever hope to have a relationship like that?

Because of Christ, what sort of relationship can we have with the Father?
