# Romans 7:14-25 Then, God Saves Us From Our Sin

## The Text

>Romans 7:14–25 (CSB)  
><sup> 14 </sup> For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold as a slave under sin. 
>
><sup> 15 </sup> For I do not understand what I am doing, because I do not practice what I want to do, but I do what I hate. 
>
><sup> 16 </sup> Now if I do what I do not want to do, I agree with the law that it is good. 
>
><sup> 17 </sup> So now I am no longer the one doing it, but it is sin living in me. 
>
><sup> 18 </sup> For I know that nothing good lives in me, that is, in my flesh. For the desire to do what is good is with me, but there is no ability to do it. 
>
><sup> 19 </sup> For I do not do the good that I want to do, but I practice the evil that I do not want to do. 
>
><sup> 20 </sup> Now if I do what I do not want, I am no longer the one that does it, but it is the sin that lives in me. 
>
><sup> 21 </sup> So I discover this law: When I want to do what is good, evil is present with me. 
>
><sup> 22 </sup> For in my inner self I delight in God’s law, 
>
><sup> 23 </sup> but I see a different law in the parts of my body, waging war against the law of my mind and taking me prisoner to the law of sin in the parts of my body. 
>
><sup> 24 </sup> What a wretched man I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death? 
>
><sup> 25 </sup> Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, with my mind I myself am serving the law of God, but with my flesh, the law of sin.


## God

### God is at work: you will begin to see the difference between the spiritual and the flesh

><sup> 14 </sup> For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold as a slave under sin. 

### God is at work: you will begin to hate sin that you do

><sup> 15 </sup> For I do not understand what I am doing, because I do not practice what I want to do, but I do what I hate. 

### God is at work: you will begin to feel the pain of the cutting of the law on your life

><sup> 16 </sup> Now if I do what I do not want to do, I agree with the law that it is good. <sup> 17 </sup> So now I am no longer the one doing it, but it is sin living in me. 

## The Gospel

### We are a new creation: before, we started far from him

><sup> 18 </sup> For I know that nothing good lives in me, that is, in my flesh. For the desire to do what is good is with me, but there is no ability to do it. 

### We are a new creation: before, we started with no ability to obey him at all

><sup> 19 </sup> For I do not do the good that I want to do, but I practice the evil that I do not want to do. 


### We are a new creation: we are not at peace with sin

><sup> 20 </sup> Now if I do what I do not want, I am no longer the one that does it, but it is the sin that lives in me. 

### We are a new creation: we will not be perfectly obedient

><sup> 21 </sup> So I discover this law: When I want to do what is good, evil is present with me. 

>Ephesians 2:8-10 (CSB) For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift—9 not from works, so that no one can boast. 10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared ahead of time for us to do.

### We are a new creation: we are at war with sin

><sup> 22-23 </sup> For in my inner self I delight in God’s law, but I see a different law in the parts of my body, waging war against the law of my mind and taking me prisoner to the law of sin in the parts of my body. 

>Psalm 19:7–14 (CSB)  
> 7  The instruction of the LORD is perfect, renewing one’s life; the testimony of the LORD is trustworthy, making the inexperienced wise. 

> 8  The precepts of the LORD are right, making the heart glad; the command of the LORD is radiant, making the eyes light up. 

> 9  The fear of the LORD is pure, enduring forever; the ordinances of the LORD are reliable and altogether righteous. 

> 10  They are more desirable than gold— than an abundance of pure gold; and sweeter than honey dripping from a honeycomb. 

> 11  In addition, your servant is warned by them, and in keeping them there is an abundant reward. 

> 12  Who perceives his unintentional sins? Cleanse me from my hidden faults. 

> 13  Moreover, keep your servant from willful sins; do not let them rule me. Then I will be blameless and cleansed from blatant rebellion. 

> 14  May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable to you, LORD, my rock and my Redeemer.

>Psalm 119:9–16 (CSB)  
> 9  How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping your word. 

> 10  I have sought you with all my heart; don’t let me wander from your commands. 

> 11  I have treasured your word in my heart so that I may not sin against you. 

> 12  LORD, may you be blessed; teach me your statutes. 

> 13  With my lips I proclaim all the judgments from your mouth. 

> 14  I rejoice in the way revealed by your decrees as much as in all riches. 

> 15  I will meditate on your precepts and think about your ways. 

> 16  I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.

>Song of Solomon 8:6 (CSB) Set me as a seal on your heart, as a seal on your arm. For love is as strong as death; jealousy is as unrelenting as Sheol. Love’s flames are fiery flames— an almighty flame!

## Our Response

### Praise his name: We were once dead

><sup> 24 </sup> What a wretched man I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death? 

>Ephesians 2:1-3 (CSB) And you were dead in your trespasses and sins 2 in which you previously walked according to the ways of this world, according to the ruler of the power of the air, the spirit now working in the disobedient. 3 We too all previously lived among them in our fleshly desires, carrying out the inclinations of our flesh and thoughts, and we were by nature children under wrath as the others were also.

>Titus 3:3 (CSB) For we too were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, enslaved by various passions and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, detesting one another.

### Praise his name: we are fully alive in Christ

><sup> 25 </sup> Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! 

>Ephesians 2:4-7 (CSB) But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love that he had for us, 5 made us alive with Christ even though we were dead in trespasses. You are saved by grace! 6 He also raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavens in Christ Jesus, 7 so that in the coming ages he might display the immeasurable riches of his grace through his kindness to us in Christ Jesus.

>Titus 3:4-7 (CSB) But when the kindness of God our Savior and his love for mankind appeared, 5 he saved us—not by works of righteousness that we had done, but according to his mercy—through the washing of regeneration and renewal by the Holy Spirit. 6 He poured out his Spirit on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior 7 so that, having been justified by his grace, we may become heirs with the hope of eternal life.

### Praise be his name: go and sin no more

>So then, with my mind I myself am serving the law of God, but with my flesh, the law of sin.
## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
My Spotless Lamb
</div>
&nbsp;

Take all of my sins.

Amen.
