# Mark 5:35-43	Jesus is the Lord over Death

## The Text

><sup> 35 </sup> While he was still speaking, people came from the synagogue leader’s house and said, “Your daughter is dead. Why bother the teacher anymore?” 
>
><sup> 36 </sup> When Jesus overheard what was said, he told the synagogue leader, “Don’t be afraid. Only believe.” 
>
><sup> 37 </sup> He did not let anyone accompany him except Peter, James, and John, James’s brother. 
>
><sup> 38 </sup> They came to the leader’s house, and he saw a commotion—people weeping and wailing loudly. 
>
><sup> 39 </sup> He went in and said to them, “Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead but asleep.” 
>
><sup> 40 </sup> They laughed at him, but he put them all outside. He took the child’s father, mother, and those who were with him, and entered the place where the child was. 
>
><sup> 41 </sup> Then he took the child by the hand and said to her, “Talitha koum” (which is translated, “Little girl, I say to you, get up”). 
>
><sup> 42 </sup> Immediately the girl got up and began to walk. (She was twelve years old.) At this they were utterly astounded. 
>
><sup> 43 </sup> Then he gave them strict orders that no one should know about this and told them to give her something to eat. 

## The Devotion

### Christ alone who calls dead to life

>Ezekiel 37:3 (CSB) Then he said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?”
I replied, “Lord GOD, only you know.”


### Christ alone is the resurrection and the life

>John 11:23-26 (CSB) “Your brother will rise again,” Jesus told her.
24 Martha said to him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”
25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live. 26 Everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”

### Christ alone saves us from death

>Ephesians 2:3-7 (CSB) We too all previously lived among them in our fleshly desires, carrying out the inclinations of our flesh and thoughts, and we were by nature children under wrath as the others were also. 4 But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love that he had for us, 5 made us alive with Christ even though we were dead in trespasses. You are saved by grace! 6 He also raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavens in Christ Jesus, 7 so that in the coming ages he might display the immeasurable riches of his grace through his kindness to us in Christ Jesus.

### Christ alone abolishes death and brought everlasting life

>2 Timothy 1:8-10 (CSB) So don’t be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, or of me his prisoner. Instead, share in suffering for the gospel, relying on the power of God. 9 He has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began. 10 This has now been made evident through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has abolished death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.

### Christ alone kills death

>Revelation 20:14 (CSB) Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.

### Christ alone removes death

>Revelation 21:4 (CSB) He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; grief, crying, and pain will be no more, because the previous things have passed away.
