# Mark 15:1-5 Every Step is Joy: Christ Does Not Defend Himself For Us

## The Text

>Mark 15:1-5 (CSB)  
><sup> 1 </sup> As soon as it was morning, having held a meeting with the elders, scribes, and the whole Sanhedrin, the chief priests tied Jesus up, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. 
>
><sup> 2 </sup> So Pilate asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” He answered him, “You say so.” 
>
><sup> 3 </sup> And the chief priests accused him of many things. 
>
><sup> 4 </sup> Pilate questioned him again, “Aren’t you going to answer? Look how many things they are accusing you of!” 
>
><sup> 5 </sup> But Jesus still did not answer, and so Pilate was amazed. 

## The Devotion

Christ is the Son of God who is God. Christ, justly, rightly, innocently could have easily said the right words in the right way and get out of this blasphemous, joke of a trial and this very real, excruciating, torturous, literally heart-spliting, literally blood-draining, literally soul releasing death on a cross.

Just like he spoke and brought everything into existence, just as so, he could have spoken and gotten out of this scott-free.

>Matthew 1:21 (CSB) She will give birth to a son, and you are to name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”

But if he did so, if he had said the "right" words, he would have gotten out of it but we would have never gotten out of hell. We would have zero chance to get out of hell. So you see, because God is God, God does not break promises and does not lie because he cannot sin, the "right" words would have been the wrong words. We could not have been saved and Christ would not have been God.

But before Genesis 1:1 to the infinity, he was always God. When wwas born to the Virgin Mary, he was God. When he worked as a carpenter interning underneath his stepdad, he kept being God. When he studied and memorized so that he could faithfully, perfectly exposit the Scriptures, he was God. When he began his ministry of teaching, preaching, healing, casting out demons--he was God.

So he was arrested. Tried. Accused. About to be hanged on a tree.

He never ceased to be God.

For our worthless estate, he never, not for one second, ceased to be God.

Every step that Christ took towards the cross was in complete joy and satisfaction because every step he took was one step closer to completely, satisfactorily, perfectly, definitely, absolutely, forever "save his people from their sins."

